docs/build-and-deployment.md, before:

# Build and Deployment Guidelines

This document provides guidelines for build configuration and deployment processes.

## Build System Rules

### Test File Separation

- **Production Build**: Test files should be excluded from production builds
- **TypeScript Configuration**: Include test files in `exclude` in `tsconfig.json`
- **Test Configuration**: Use separate `tsconfig.test.json` to include test files only during test execution

```json
// tsconfig.json - For production build
{
  "exclude": [
    "src/**/__tests__/**/*",
    "src/**/*.test.ts",
    "src/**/*.test.tsx", 
    "src/**/*.spec.ts",
    "src/**/*.spec.tsx"
  ]
}

// tsconfig.test.json - For testing
{
  "extends": "./tsconfig.json",
  "compilerOptions": {
    "types": ["vitest/globals", "node"]
  },
  "include": ["src/**/*"],
  "exclude": []
}
```

### Type System Management

- **Type Location**: Define types in the most appropriate location to prevent circular dependencies
- **Type Reuse**: Export common types from appropriate modules for reuse
- **Naming Conflict Prevention**: Avoid naming conflicts between `.d.ts` and `.ts` files

### Build Tool Configuration

- **vitest Configuration**: Specify TypeScript configuration file for testing
- **Build Cache**: Clear cache and retry when build issues occur
- **Type Check**: Pre-validate type errors with `tsc --noEmit`

## Runtime and Execution Environment

### TypeScript Execution

- **Use bun**: Use bun instead of ts-node for TypeScript code execution
- **Example**: Execute scripts in `bun run script.ts` format
- Use the same runtime throughout the project for performance and consistency

### Development Environment Setup

- Manage development dependencies using bun
- Use bun for script execution and testing
- Recommend using bun for production builds as well

## Deployment and Release Rules

### Package Publishing Requirements

- **Mandatory Deployment Script**: Always use the `publish-packages` script for npm deployments
  ```bash
  pnpm publish-packages
  ```
- **Never use direct changeset publish**: Do not use `pnpm changeset publish` directly
- **Required Pre-deployment Steps**: The `publish-packages` script ensures:
  - Documentation generation (`docs:generate`)
  - README file copying (`copy-readme`) 
  - Proper npm publishing (`changeset publish`)
  - Git tag pushing (`push-tags`)
  - Cleanup of temporary files (`cleanup-readme`)

### Deployment Workflow

```bash
# ✅ Correct deployment process
pnpm changeset                    # Create changeset
pnpm publish-packages            # Complete deployment

# ❌ Incorrect - missing steps
pnpm changeset publish           # Direct publish (missing README, docs, etc.)
```

### Version Management

- Use semantic versioning (semver) principles
- Breaking changes require minor version bumps for pre-1.0 releases
- Patch releases for bug fixes and non-breaking improvements
- Always create changesets with clear, concise descriptions

## Commit and Changeset Message Guidelines

### Message Length Requirements

- **Maximum 80 characters**: All commit messages and changeset descriptions must be 80 characters or less
- **Concise and clear**: Focus on essential information only
- **No detailed explanations**: Save detailed explanations for PR descriptions or documentation

### Good Examples

```bash
# ✅ Good commit messages (under 80 chars)
"Remove tools re-exports from core package"
"Add README files to packages for npm"
"Fix circular dependency in tools"
"Update build scripts for proper deployment"

# ✅ Good changeset descriptions
"Remove tools re-exports from core. Import from @robota-sdk/tools instead."
"Add README.md files to packages for better npm documentation."
"Fix circular dependency between core and tools packages."
```

### Bad Examples

```bash
# ❌ Too long and verbose
"Remove re-export functionality from @robota-sdk/core package because it was creating confusion and circular dependencies with @robota-sdk/tools package, which violates our architectural principles"

# ❌ Too detailed for changeset
"This commit fixes the architectural issue where @robota-sdk/core was incorrectly re-exporting functionality from @robota-sdk/tools, creating confusion and circular dependencies. The change improves module separation and follows development guidelines."
```

### Changeset Creation Guidelines

1. **Be specific but brief**: Mention what changed, not why
2. **Use imperative mood**: "Add", "Remove", "Fix", "Update"
3. **Focus on user impact**: What users need to know or do
4. **One line preferred**: Avoid multi-line descriptions unless absolutely necessary

### Commit Message Format

```bash
# Format: <action>: <brief description>
git commit -m "feat: add README files to npm packages"
git commit -m "fix: remove circular dependency in tools"
git commit -m "refactor: simplify deployment workflow"
```

Commit message:

docs: add changeset message length guidelines and update changeset

docs/build-and-deployment.md, after:

# Build and Deployment Guidelines

This document provides guidelines for build configuration and deployment processes.

## Build System Rules

### Test File Separation

- **Production Build**: Test files should be excluded from production builds
- **TypeScript Configuration**: Include test files in `exclude` in `tsconfig.json`
- **Test Configuration**: Use separate `tsconfig.test.json` to include test files only during test execution

```json
// tsconfig.json - For production build
{
  "exclude": [
    "src/**/__tests__/**/*",
    "src/**/*.test.ts",
    "src/**/*.test.tsx", 
    "src/**/*.spec.ts",
    "src/**/*.spec.tsx"
  ]
}

// tsconfig.test.json - For testing
{
  "extends": "./tsconfig.json",
  "compilerOptions": {
    "types": ["vitest/globals", "node"]
  },
  "include": ["src/**/*"],
  "exclude": []
}
```

### Type System Management

- **Type Location**: Define types in the most appropriate location to prevent circular dependencies
- **Type Reuse**: Export common types from appropriate modules for reuse
- **Naming Conflict Prevention**: Avoid naming conflicts between `.d.ts` and `.ts` files

### Build Tool Configuration

- **vitest Configuration**: Specify TypeScript configuration file for testing
- **Build Cache**: Clear cache and retry when build issues occur
- **Type Check**: Pre-validate type errors with `tsc --noEmit`

## Runtime and Execution Environment

### TypeScript Execution

- **Use bun**: Use bun instead of ts-node for TypeScript code execution
- **Example**: Execute scripts in `bun run script.ts` format
- Use the same runtime throughout the project for performance and consistency

### Development Environment Setup

- Manage development dependencies using bun
- Use bun for script execution and testing
- Recommend using bun for production builds as well

## Deployment and Release Rules

### Package Publishing Requirements

- **Mandatory Deployment Script**: Always use the `publish-packages` script for npm deployments
  ```bash
  pnpm publish-packages
  ```
- **Never use direct changeset publish**: Do not use `pnpm changeset publish` directly
- **Required Pre-deployment Steps**: The `publish-packages` script ensures:
  - Documentation generation (`docs:generate`)
  - README file copying (`copy-readme`) 
  - Proper npm publishing (`changeset publish`)
  - Git tag pushing (`push-tags`)
  - Cleanup of temporary files (`cleanup-readme`)

### Deployment Workflow

```bash
# ✅ Correct deployment process
pnpm changeset                    # Create changeset
pnpm publish-packages            # Complete deployment

# ❌ Incorrect - missing steps
pnpm changeset publish           # Direct publish (missing README, docs, etc.)
```

### Version Management

- Use semantic versioning (semver) principles
- Breaking changes require minor version bumps for pre-1.0 releases
- Patch releases for bug fixes and non-breaking improvements
- Always create changesets with clear, concise descriptions

## Commit and Changeset Message Guidelines

### Message Length Requirements

- **Maximum 80 characters**: All commit messages and changeset descriptions must be 80 characters or less
- **Concise and clear**: Focus on essential information only
- **No detailed explanations**: Save detailed explanations for PR descriptions or documentation

### Good Examples

```bash
# ✅ Good commit messages (under 80 chars)
"Remove tools re-exports from core package"
"Add README files to packages for npm"
"Fix circular dependency in tools"
"Update build scripts for proper deployment"

# ✅ Good changeset descriptions
"Remove tools re-exports from core. Import from @robota-sdk/tools instead."
"Add README.md files to packages for better npm documentation."
"Fix circular dependency between core and tools packages."
```

### Bad Examples

```bash
# ❌ Too long and verbose
"Remove re-export functionality from @robota-sdk/core package because it was creating confusion and circular dependencies with @robota-sdk/tools package, which violates our architectural principles"

# ❌ Too detailed for changeset
"This commit fixes the architectural issue where @robota-sdk/core was incorrectly re-exporting functionality from @robota-sdk/tools, creating confusion and circular dependencies. The change improves module separation and follows development guidelines."
```

### Changeset Creation Guidelines

1. **Be specific but brief**: Mention what changed, not why
2. **Use imperative mood**: "Add", "Remove", "Fix", "Update"
3. **Focus on user impact**: What users need to know or do
4. **One line preferred**: Avoid multi-line descriptions unless absolutely necessary
5. **80-character limit**: Changeset descriptions must be 80 characters or less

### Changeset Message Examples

```bash
# ✅ Good changeset messages (under 80 chars)
"Enhance SEO and update URLs to robota.io domain"
"Add function calling support for all providers"
"Fix memory leak in conversation history"
"Update TypeScript to v5.3 for better performance"

# ❌ Bad changeset messages (too long)
"This changeset enhances the SEO capabilities of the documentation site and updates all package URLs from the old GitHub Pages domain to the new custom domain robota.io"
```

### Commit Message Format

```bash
# Format: <action>: <brief description>
git commit -m "feat: add README files to npm packages"
git commit -m "fix: remove circular dependency in tools"
git commit -m "refactor: simplify deployment workflow"
```
